CAM-10978: docs(update): historic variables on asychBefore (#494)
camunda/camunda-docs-manual: content/update/minor/712-to-713/_index.md

# DMN 1.3 Support in Cockpit

With this release, Cockpit adds support for DMN 1.3, the next version of the DMN standard. If you edit and deploy DMN diagrams in Cockpit, which use earlier versions of DMN, they will automatically be migrated to DMN 1.3.

The Camunda engine already supports the DMN 1.3 namespace by default, so there are no more steps required to migrate.
Make sure you have the latest version of [Camunda Modeler](https://camunda.com/download/modeler/) installed to edit DMN 1.3 files locally.

# Historic Process Instance Variables on Asynchronous Instantiation

> This concerns only processes that have a start event with [asyncBefore]({{< ref "/reference/bpmn20/events/start-events.md#asynchronous-instantiation" >}}) flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This concerns only processes that have a start event with the [asyncBefore]({{< ref "/reference/bpmn20/events/start-events.md#asynchronous-instantiation" >}}) flag set.
```

{{< img src="./img/asyncBefore-start-event.svg" title="Asynchronous Instantiation" >}}

Let's have a look at the following example:

```java
// Step 1
ProcessInstance processInstance = runtimeService.startProcessInstanceByKey("oneTaskProcess",
        Variables.createVariables().putValue("invoiceId", "I-123"));

// Step 2: execute the asynchronous continuation job of the start event
executeJob(processInstancJob);
```

> Before this minor release, the historic variable `invoiceId` would be stored only after the job execution in step 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this minor release, the historic variable `invoiceId` would have been stored only after the job execution in step 2.
```

That behavior differed from the rest of the use cases where variables are set on process instance start or later.
Now they are stored right away to keep the use cases consistent.
The approach is more natural to how the historic information is stored into the database and helps to resolve issues during process execution and inconsistent information between runtime and historic data.

> In Cockpit, you will notice different activity instance id in the Details for instances started in 7.13.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean here, does this make more sense?
```suggestion
In Cockpit, starting from 7.13, you will notice a different activity instance id in the Details for instances.
```

{{< img src="./img/variable-log.png" title="Variable Log" >}}

> There it will be the process instance id now. The same is valid if you are using the Java and/or REST API.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what `There it will be the process instance id now` references. Can you make it more clear?
